System Metrics
-----------------------

Power Analysis
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Let us first begin considering the digital design metrics that are
important for us to understand the electrical operation characteristics
of mixed electronic-photonic systems. Most of these are redefined to
include photonic loads based on *Digital Integrated Circuits, A Design
Perspective* by Jan Rabaey. Page numbers are provided accordingly.

Power Consumption Definitions
^^^^^^^^^^

Peak Power
'''''''''''''''''''''''''

A design can have a peak power :math:`P_{peak}` which basically involves
the maximum power consumption possible by the total photonic and
electronic system. If we have a single supply voltage to our system
:math:`V_{supply}`, then we can define it as:

.. math::

    \begin{equation}
        P_{peak} = i_{peak}V_{supply} = \text{max}\left(p(t)\right)
    \end{equation}

If we have :math:`N` multiple supply voltages to our system, which is
more likekly the case in a mixed-signal digital and analogue supplies,
and potentially another external photonic electrical supply, then we can
define the total peak power of the system as:

.. math::

    \begin{equation}
        P_{peak,possible} = \sum_0^N i_{peak,N}V_{supply,N} = \sum_0^N \text{max}\left(p_N(t)\right)
    \end{equation}

In reality, we need to think of the maximum power that can be drawn by
the maximum power consuming operation, which may not involve all
supplies operating at the maximum draw. However, if you want a
conservative estimate, you can assume that is it possible that all
supplies are operating at their maximum current draw :math:`i_{peak}`.
An generic maximum power defined as the highest consuming state of the
system, where not all supplies are operating at their maximum
:math:`i_{peak}` power can then be defined dependent on an consumption
efficiency parameter :math:`\eta_N` for the highest operation load:

.. math::

    \begin{equation}
        P_{peak,operation} = \sum_0^N \eta_N i_{peak,N}V_{supply,N} = \text{max} \left( \sum_0^N \left(p_N(t)\right) \right)
    \end{equation}

Average Power
''''''''''''''''''''''''

What may be more likely is that you might be operating this integrated
electronic-photonic system with a set of instructions over a long period
of time. A set of example of this would be through encoding
communication channels, or arbitrary unitary operations, sensing a
sample, etc. In this case, there is a power consumption over a period of
time. We can describe this in terms of the average power consumption of
the whole system over a period of time :math:`T`:

.. math::

    \begin{equation}
        P_{average} = \int_0^T p(t) dt
    \end{equation}


If we have multiple supplies, as is likely to be the case, then we can
consider it to be:

.. math::

    \begin{equation}
        P_{average} = \sum_0^N \frac{V_{supply,N}}{T} \int_0^T i_{supply,N} (t) dt
    \end{equation}

Power Consumption Sources
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

In terms of photonic loads
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

We can decompose this in terms of dynamic and static power. When some
transistors are switching, they are consuming dynamic power that they do
not consume when they are in an idle state. This applies similarly to a
photonic load. A resistive photonic load such as a thermo-optic heater
is consuming power in an idle state constantantly whenever any signal is
being applied. A capacitive load such as a electro-optic carrier
depletion phase shifter gets charged and discharged according to the
voltage that is applied and the total power consumption is dependent on
the total switching events. The same could be said for the thermo-optic
phase shifters in terms of a PWM-based modulation and so on. It is just
important to understand the sources of power consumption and heat
dissipation in our circuits in order for us to be able to optimise for
it.

We know we want to minimise the static power consumption of the circuit
on the idle state, which means that resistive loads such as heaters are
no-gos in terms of VLSI-photonics without a suitable cooling solution.

In terms of dynamic loads, we know that the more switching events we
have, and more components we have, the higher the total power
consumption.

Let us evaluate how our circuit operates for these devices. In terms of
a carrier depletion modulator, we can consider the electrical connection
as some resistive wire and the junction load to be a capacitor. We can
describe this from first-principles as a basic RC circuit, with the
following relationship:

.. math::

    \begin{equation}
        V_{out,RC}(t) = (1-e^{-t/\tau})
    \end{equation}

Our time constant :math:`\tau = RC`. And we know that
:math:`50\% V_{out,RC} = 0.69\tau` and :math:`90\% V_{out,RC} = 2.2\tau`
based on Eq. 1.13, page 34 on Rabaey.

Energy input from signal source to charge a capacitor, independent of
series resistance R, although this determines rise times.

.. math::

    \begin{equation}
        E_{in} =  \int_{0}^{\infty} i_{in}(t) v_{in}(t) dt = V \int_{0}^{\infty} C \frac{dV_{out}}{dt} dt = (CV) \int_{0}^{V} dV_{out} = CV^2
    \end{equation}

During charge-up, the energy stored in resistor is:

.. math::

    \begin{equation}
        E_c = \int_{0}^{\infty} i_c (t) V_{out} (t) dt = \int_{0}^{\infty} C \frac{dV_{out}}{dt} dt = C \int_{0}^{V} V_{out} dV_{out} = \frac{CV^2}{2}
    \end{equation}

The other half of the energy gets dissipated in the resistor during
rising edge, and the rest of the capacitor energy gets dissipated on the
falling edge. This means that per transition there is about
:math:`E_{load,loss} = \frac{CV^2}{2}` of energy dissipation. This does
not account the energy dissipation per stage, but we need to account for
it for a super low power based design. There is also the
characterisation considerations, and corresponding capacitances.

Another important relationship of the :math:`RC` time constant is also
in the driving of the device, when, in a switching event, the driving
switch can be considered as a voltage-controlled-capacitor (gate)
modulating-resistor (source-drain). This is important because we can
see, when we drive a switching event, and when we consider our signal
drivers, the effect of their fundamental components on the rest of the
circuit.

Time Analysis
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Signal Propagation Definitions
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Our signals will change given that we have control over how we affect
our photonic circuit. Say, we define two boundary conditions of our
signals in a transition between 10% and 90%. We define the time of
change in between these transitions as the rise or fall time depending
on the direction of the change. In digital electronics, section 1.3 of
Rabay, we call this change the propagation delay of our transitions.
Now, this is very important for a range of reasons.

Mainly this has an effect on the speed of our system, and also on the
power consumption of the system. It has an important effect on how we
design our driving electronics for our photonics loads.

Rabay describes the importance of this definition very well:

   The rise/fall time of a signal is largely determined by the strength
   of the driving gate, and the load presented by the node itself, which
   sums the contributions of the connecting gates (fan-out) and the
   wiring parasitics.

We will explore this definition in the context of our drivers and loads
thoroughly. An important relationship worth remembering is that in a
simple RC series circuit, it takes :math:`2.2 \tau = 2.2 RC` to reach
the 90% signal transition point.

This means that when digitizing the time of an RC signal in terms of
defining the time step of our SPICE simulation, we need to decide the
amount of resolution between the RC metric as a fraction of the RC time
constant.

We go back to our basics by remembering some relationships in the *The
Art of Electronics* by Paul Horowitz and Winfield Hill.

Low-Pass RC Filter
''''''''''''''''''''''

TODO ADD IMAGE

In a low-pass series RC circuit filter common in P/EIC layout, the
following transfer function relationships are also important. This is
the equivalent circuit formed in between a signal routing wire, eg. DC
wire to a heater, and the return path capacitive coupled signal. This
relationship is also significant when deriving transmission line design
parameters, but we will discuss this later.

This *low-pass* filter passes lower frequencies and blocks higher
frequencies depending on the time constant of the circuit. Note that the
capacitor has a decreasing reactance (the complex impedance component
:math:`X_C`) with an increasing frequency. Unless it is specifically
designed for higher RF frequencies you must take care of what bandwidths
you will operate your circuit. A common scenario of this would simply be
the bandwidth of the wiring of the chip.

The transfer function of the output voltage node :math:`V_{out,RC}` in
between the :math:`RC` elements in the frequency :math:`\omega` domain:

.. math::

    \begin{equation}
        \frac{V_{out,RC}}{V_{in}} = \frac{X_C}{R + X_C} = \frac{1}{1 + \omega \tau}
    \end{equation}


RC Time-Constant Derivation
'''''''''''''''''''''''''''

The time constant relationship :math:`\tau` is derived from this
relationship. Note that at lower frequencies the capacitors reactance
:math:`X_C` is very high, which means that the output node is like a
voltage divider with a small resistance on top of a very high one.
However, at higher frequencies, this becomes less valid as
:math:`X_C \approx \frac{1}{\omega C}`. This means that there will be a
frequency :math:`\omega_0 = \frac{1}{RC}`

High-Pass RC Filter
''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''''

TODO ADD IMAGE

In this case, the capacitor is connected directly to the input voltage
:math:`V_{in}` which provides an inverse relationship to the low-pass
filter. The transfer function can be defined as:

.. math::

    \begin{equation}
        \frac{V_{out,RC}}{V_{in}} = \frac{R}{R + X_C} = \frac{\omega \tau}{1 + \omega \tau}
    \end{equation}

Depending on your wiring, a common case of this type of filter might
involve driving a capacitive load such as electro-optic modulator in the
frequency domain. Note, it is possible to drive them in DC.

Driving, Propagation Delay & Fanout
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If we consider each of our modulators, as a load, we must also consider
how we are driving them.
